Hello everybody and welcome to refactoring rules.
One of the big things about refactoring that I found is that people often ask the question why is my
code works why do I need to do anything with it.
Well if you to build your code what often happens is it ends up messy to begin with.
Then tidying it up gives you a great foundation to build upon it.
If you leave it messy it becomes unwieldy and impossible to manage.
So we're going to be using multiple getters for multiple return values in this lecture.
Now you could go about creating a struct and putting the values in there or even our parameters.
But for this particular case we're going to use multiple guesses for multiple return values.
Now in general less lines of clear code that's important it has to be clear and readable is better.
Naming is really really important.
So take the time to name your things Don't be scared of renaming them.
We've got tools that enable you to rename everything with it.
Try and make your names unique as well if you've got two names in different functions.
It's very easy to accidentally rename the wrong one and comment the Why don't assume that it's obvious
when it comes to your code.
The what should be obvious so when you're looking at your code it should be clear as to what it's doing.
But sometimes you need to comment the why are you doing it.
It can be helpful to add that level of clarification especially when you're fresh coding or you're planning
on taking a break from it as well.
It's always about this scratch actually planning to take a break.
You may have to do something else for a week when you come back.
It needs to be clear in your mind haven't helped anybody else when they look at your code.
If you don't have some nice comments nice clear obvious what the code is doing and refactoring can really
help hone that in.
So you've really got three stages of coding red green and refactor what are they.
Well red is it's not working.
Our test is failing there.
This is the state that your code starts in not working doesn't mean that it's wrong it just means that
it's in development and eventually you put it altogether like we did in the last lecture and it's working.
This is the green stage but it's kind of ugly.
We're using this line trace and multiple times that should be refracted out and sorted out.
And that's what we're going to work on in this lecture.
And we'll also have a look at anything else that we need to do.
So the refactor bit is all about making it pretty.
And of course it must still work and it's not pretty.
Just because it looks good it also will be much better for its as well giving you that strong foundation
to work on and build your code upon.
And then of course you repeat the sequence.
This is something that we'll just have to be done time and time again.
Of course you always do have to be careful of going over the top with your refactoring make sure your
code is clear Don't take out a line of code and put it in its own function because doing that is actually
going to make your code more complex.
There is a balance to be had and it just comes with experience.
OK.
I think you're ready for this challenge.
And I'd like you to before you even start make a backup of your project or commit your changes so far
I know it's easy to forget doing it every lecture but this is the time where you need to do it because
if you do make a mistake we're moving a lot of code around it's quite an intensive process this time
and we want to make sure that you can roll back if necessary or so you can just give it a go you can
get in there get messy see if you can get it working if you can't you can start again and just practice
and then of course if you find your own way and you'd like the code to more reflect what I'm doing then
of course you can revert back having had that experience and knowledge gained.
And of course then you can follow along with me if you need to.
So refactor your code.
That's the big thing here.
And yes it is soon.
It's only a couple of lectures ago that we did a little bit more refactoring but clarity is worth fighting
for.
If you leave it too long it just becomes too unwieldy to manage and make it so clear that you'll remember
in a year pulls with you now and give that a go Hello everybody welcome back.
Let's jump over to V.S. code and start our refactor.
OK.
So let's go ahead and restart this refactor now.
I'm going to blow up my code a little on the screen so we can really focus and make it nice and clear
so you can do that by the way with control plus and minus obviously I'm not gonna make it super big
like that but a little bit bigger so I can really focus on one area at a time.
Now most ideas do allow you to collapse blocks of code which is really really useful.
So as I go through this what I'll do is in this code if we go towards the numbers the line numbers on
the side we have here this little down arrow click that it will hide that particular block of code which
is going to be really useful.
I'm going to use in this case to say yep I'm happy with that area of code.
Now before we start let's have a look at the number of lines we have.
So we basically got 142 lines of code okay.
So let's go up to the top and just go down and I know when we reach this area here where we get to the
grab component this is going to be one of the major parts that we need to focus on.
I'm going to start at the top so I'm not bouncing around all over the place or at least not too much.
OK so let's have a look at our first function.
That's absolutely fine.
There's nothing more we can do to tie this up with except to removing the comments and that's just not
worth it.
Begin play again that's nice and simple so we can get rid of that.
The setup put component.
Again nice and straightforward though that's all set up to receive input from our player OK.
This is the first area that we can to sort out on online 38.
The fine physics handle now because every actor has one of these on them.
You may think that this code is a bit redundant but because we're using it later on we need to make
sure that we protect ourselves when we go ahead and try and grab and use the physics handled down here
if it doesn't have a physics handle on it or receive a null pointer and it will crash.
So we should give it a condition by which if it does for some reason not point to anything at that moment
in time it doesn't crash our game.
I'm going to move the log back up here.
I don't think we're ever going to see this printed out but it's there in case.
OK.
So that's their area all done.
Let's hide that chunk.
So let's have a look at the.
Grab function.
Now this is the chunk of code here from line 51 to line 59 that we're repeating several times.
That's a great idea to refactor that's out now now what we would call that.
I'm not quite sure at the moment well we'll think about that but let's start at the very top.
Do we still want the grabber pressed to come into the log whenever we click the key.
Well we know it's working now and we put that there.
So we knew it was working before we had any implementation at all.
So I'm quite happy to get rid of those lines and just starts here.
Okay.
So how do we go ahead and approach this in this particular case.
What we're looking to be returned from the function is this line trace and that's ultimately what all
of this is to calculate.
So we can use it down here on line 69.
Okay.
And I think later on we need the player viewpoint location as well so we may have to create two functions.
And I think there's another way that we can approach it as well but I'll leave that to another time.
Okay.
So the line trace end is going to equal the player viewpoint location plus the player viewpoint rotations
of it.
Okay.
So before we go ahead and create the function what is it returning.
Well it's returning an effector line trace and that will be the ultimate goal here.
So we'll go to the header file.
Okay.
So what are we doing here we are going to return the line trace and.
And once we've done that.
So what are we returning where we're returning an F vector and we could call it many things.
Naming is important but what I come up with now is probably not what you came up with during the challenge
but it's absolutely fine if you've named it differently.
So this is going to going gets for us the players reach or something along those lines.
And it is actually going to be com Steven though we use reach.
We're not modifying its tool so I think that would be fine to have it as a console function.
Let's go back over to the implementation.
I'm going to copy the get player reach.
Otherwise I'll probably mis type it.
That just makes it a bit easier when we come down here.
I'm just going to keep it in line at the moment and then I'm just going to keep it close at the moment
and then later on I can shift it around if necessary.
So this is returning and Effexor as we already know.
And then we need are you grabber a long column for the scope operator and then get the players reach
now.
Why is there a red squiggle under here.
Well remember that this is a contest function so we need to make sure that the declaration and the definition
of the same thing because you can have both types of functions next to one another depending on what
code you're writing.
OK.
So what are we dumping in here.
Well we're going to go ahead and grab line 49 to 57 and pop it down here.
There are a couple of things that we could do in order to store the line trace and what we need to return
it.
Let's let's focus on just finishing off this function first and then we'll come back up and make sure
it's working and running up in the grab function.
So at this point in time you may be tempted to go return the line trace end because that's what we've
gone and gotten but we're storing it temporarily and then returning it seems like a waste of a line
of code where we could just return this result which is essentially the line trace.
And so instead of effective line trace and equaling that we can simply return the results and the return
itself will be of type effect.
So we've already decided that.
Okay.
So how do we go ahead and use that's up here.
Well first of all I'm going to remove a couple of those lines and the line trace end will the line trace
end is what this is being returned.
So we can literally put the gets players reach in here and that is essentially the effect that it's
asking for.
Okay.
I think that's good.
Let's go ahead and hide that's out the way get the players reach.
Now we may have to also get the players location as well there may be a couple of ways of doing that
but I'm happy with this for the moment let's go down to the next release.
Well we don't want it locking out any more that the grabbers not no longer being pressed that key we
know it's working and we know this base is working so we just type out the way that was the easiest
bit ever and there's an extra whitespace just here okay.
The Tick component.
So we've got our funky code in here again.
So where are we using this.
Let's have a look through our code.
So all of this bits of code here from 86 to 95.
So all of that is being used.
So we could use line trace and here at 100.
Now we're not having to use the player viewpoint location.
I think that's further down here.
So at this point we can just get players reach through that function call in there and then all of this
code from 86 down to 96 will not 96 or 95 can be deleted.
I'm going to add a little space in there OK that looks pretty good so far.
And yeah I think that's absolutely fine.
Of course the proof of the pudding will be when we come to run our code making sure it works.
Next bits get the first physics body in reach.
So this is where we're using our code again.
But what are we doing with it.
Well further down here we're using the line trace end.
But we're also using the player viewpoint location which can we get any other way.
Maybe if we choose to go and get the player's viewpoint location using this get well get first player
controller get viewpoint then we're not going to be able to reduce our code as much.
So I think we can still refactor this out and in stead of having our get players reach it we can just
have a get to play a position function instead.
And then we can call that function here instead.
So let's go ahead.
I'm going to do that just underneath and then I'll probably bring the two bits of code together just
so I can keep everything on the screen at the same time.
So what is this going to return.
It's going to return an effector.
So this is going to get player's location or rather let's be specific here.
It's going to be the position in the world.
That's the important thing.
Being specific with your comments always fine.
Okay.
So what do we need.
Well it's going to return an F factor as always.
And what are we going to call it.
We were going to call it gets.
So let's get the player's world position instead of world polls.
I'm going to keep it short like that.
Once again it's going to be a contest function in this particular case and do that.
Okay.
So that is it declared.
Let's go ahead and define it down here.
So once again it's a effector.
Okay so let's go ahead and define it down here.
So F vector and then it's going to be you Grandpa colon colon and whatever we just called it.
So I'm gonna go ahead and grab that.
Bring it down.
Pop it in and that's before it's gonna be a contest function.
Let's open up our curly braces.
Bring it down.
Okay.
So what is going in here.
Well it is just going to be this for the moment to keep our refactor simple.
And of course if you've gone off and explored other ways of getting the position of the player in the
world then you could use that instead.
I know of a few ways we can go and get the players location or position in the world.
And there's no right or wrong for this.
It would just depend what you're trying to do at the time.
So let's delete the extra line we've got there.
So we're really just moving things around a little at the moment.
But this should mean after a bit of tidy up every hit result hits.
Okay.
Get well.
So this is where we were using it.
So this is where we can get the players reach.
And it's world position.
So remember they are function calls seeking to require your parentheses.
Okay.
I think that's that's area done there now I can't collapse that because there's this other thing at
the bottom here and this is all about printing out to the count.
So what actual objects we've hit in game and just like the whether or not the grab a button has been
pressed I'm quite happy that we don't need any of this code any more so we can go ahead here and just
remove that bit.
Hey that's looking good.
And this chunk of code here I do want to keep it with the other getter so I can move the other get it
down or bring this one up.
It's entirely up to me.
So where is the other guests get players reach.
I'm going to move that down in this particular case with the old key and arrows.
So get first you grab I should a collapse that could have been a lot easier to move around so get the
location get the players reach.
I think that's absolutely fine we go and I've messed up my curly braces when I was moving.
So that's one thing to just watch out for when you're moving things around it's very easy to inadvertently
delete something that's going to cause you a bit of a headache with the syntax of your code.
Okay that's fine that's fine.
And this bit here isn't final yet.
So they get world position isn't fully done because we just need the player viewpoint location and that
is what we're returning.
So let's go ahead and return the player viewpoint location.
If we go ahead and and that's the distinct difference between the gets players well position and get
the players reach Okay that looks good to me.
Famous last words I know but let's go ahead save our file and go over into unreal.
OK let's go ahead and press compile.
Now I am expecting that to be at least one error.
Always is one error.
But that's good.
That gives us practice making sure we recognize these errors as we're typing them.
Yes.
OK.
We have got a problem let's go ahead and show the log.
I'm glad it just.
Here we go.
So control reaches end of a non void function what line are we talking about.
Grab a 95 line 95.
Let's go have a look and I'm looking at this saying should this be returning something.
The answer is yes.
How I miss that I don't know so we were returning here and F hit results or supposed to be at least.
And it's not returning anything.
So let's go ahead and return.
In this case we can just return hits.
OK.
I think that's all sorted.
Let's go ahead save our work and go back over into one real okay so let's compile for compilers complete.
Fingers crossed when we press play.
You know crashing and we can throw the cube across the room and let's pick up the cone.
There we go.
And we can spot pop it over here in the corner and in a bit we'll give these objects mass and us for
that matter and then we'll be able to escape the room.
Awesome.
How are you guys getting on.
That was quite a big lots of refactoring to do.
I found the challenge of it quite fun and I hope you do as well.
Now if you came up with any other solutions other than the ones that I've come up with then I'd love
to see your full process and the way that you approach this challenge.
There won't be any right or wrong answer persay as long as everything is working at the end of it.
So that's it for this lecture and I'll see you all in the next one.